# lite_6_examples
Some examples of the use of  xArm-Python-SDK library

Before the use of the examples presented in this document is recomended to install all dependencies for the xArm-Python-SDK library. You can find a detailed information in https://github.com/xArm-Developer/xArm-Python-SDK?utm_source=officialwebsite&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=none

You must download:
```
git clone https://github.com/xArm-Developer/xArm-Python-SDK.git
cd xArm-Python-SDK
```
Then install dependencies as:
```
pip install build
python -m build
pip install dist/xarm_python_sdk-1.16.0-py3-none-any.whl
```
or:
```
pip install .
```
## Example 1: Using G-code, bidimensional drawing
G-code is a CNC (Control Numeric Control) programing for machinning tools. In this particular exercise, an image is drawed using the G-code of figure contour. For this purpose, Inkscape which is a free drawing program, is employed. For the G-code generation of image contour, the next steps must be followed:
* Open new document in inkscape an import one image from an specific path
* Select the option in menu _Trace_ and the option _Bit map vectorization_. A new menu will appear and the select border detection form the list of _Detection mode_.
* From menu _Archive_ select _Document properties_ and adjust the page to the dimensions of your image.
* At this point, from menu _Extensions_ select _Gcode generator_ and the option _Library tools_. For this exercise, the predefined selection is the best option. On the tool definitions, define the diameter tool in 5 mm, beacuse is the diameter of a comercial pencil, which will be the machinning tool in this case
* From from menu _Extensions_ select _Gcode generator_ and the option _Orientation points_ to define the origin of the image in a two dimensional reference. From the displayed  menu you have to chose the option _Two points mode_ 
* Finally from menu _Extensions_ select _Gcode generator_ and the option _Gcode path_ to define the name of output file and the path for saving it.

An step by step video can be found in the next <a href="https://youtu.be/H7UaoG4Wry4" title="video">link</a>

### Python program
For the use of the  xArm-Python-SDK library is important to work in the  xArm-Python-SDK/example/wrapper/common path, in order to be abble to acces the complements required. From the examples provided by the library, the program has to initialize the robot, as shown hereafter:
``` python
import os
import sys
import time
import re

sys.path.append(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), '../../..'))

from xarm.wrapper import XArmAPI

arm = XArmAPI(ip)
arm.motion_enable(enable=True)
arm.set_mode(0)
arm.set_state(state=0)

arm.move_gohome(wait=True)
```
Python has a ```re``` library which can convert G-code lines into coordinates in a X-Y plane. For information purpose, the program shows to the user the number of lines included in the G-code file.
``` python
with open("mario_gcode_0002.ngc", 'r') as fp:
    lines = sum(1 for line in fp)
    print('Total Number of lines:', lines)
```
The robot can trace from 6 to 5 lines per second if the speed of the arm is defined at 100 mm/s. In this case, the G-code generated by Inkscape is in the same path as the python program. The next step is to parse the coordinates to move the robotic arm to specific position, as shown next:
``` python
with open('mario_gcode_0002.ngc') as gcode:
    for line in gcode:
        line = line.strip()
        coord = re.findall(r'[XY].?\d+.\d+', line)
        if coord :
            xx = coord[0].split('X')
            xx = xx[1]
            yy = coord[1].split('Y')
            yy = yy[1]
            arm.set_position(x=-44 - float(xx) , y=-228 - float(yy), z=210, roll=180, pitch=0, yaw=0, speed=100, wait=True)
```
As can be seen, the reference plane is translated to the work space defined by the position of a piece of paper and the location of the robotic arm. The non uniformity of the work space generates some particular cases that have to be improbed. In the python code [_demo_gcode.py_]{https://github.com/etorresr/lite_6_examples/blob/main/demo_gcode.py} is presented some of the special cases that has been taken into account for our exercise.
